# rvt2doc, <br>a comprehensive report for virtualization migration feasibility analysis

## What is it?

**rvt2doc** is an easy to use tool which extracts relevant information from RVTools generated spreadsheets. 

RVTools is a free report generator for VMWare infrastructure used by most of VMWare users. RVTools generates spreadsheets with lots of granular data including configuration and status which are so extensive and could be hard to analyze if you are not used to do it:  [RVTools_Site](https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-us/000325532/rvtools-4-7-1-installer) , [RVTools_Documentation](https://downloads.dell.com/rvtools/rvtools.pdf).

Using **rvt2doc** provides some advantages compared to direct analysis of RVTools spreadsheets alone:
- rvt2doc provides a simpler and structured report including far less "sensitive" information than the original spreadsheet generated by RVTools.
- rvt2doc is focused on those aspects which are relevant from a migration point of view, helping to identify risks and obtain a first overview through a simple to read Docx document.

Take a look into the <a href="https://gitlab.consulting.redhat.com/marmendo/rvt2doc/-/wikis/rvt2doc-Guide" target="_blank">**rvt2doc guide**</a> for a description of the report generated by rvt2doc and some **guidelines for its interpretation**.

rvt2doc is very well suited for the customer to generate a report and send the resulting output document back to Red Hat.

## How to use it?

**First, please, do not send this project's code to the customer !!** 

Running the Python code by the customer will require the right Python execution environment. <br>Using the [binary executable](https://gitlab.consulting.redhat.com/marmendo/rvt2doc/-/tree/master/dist) will make things easier.

- We usually suggest the customer send us the RVTools report (.xlsx) to be analyzed. Having the original information could help in case we need to dig into some aspect shown up by the rvt2doc (.docx) report. But, don't get locked on receiving the spreadsheets, some customers could be reluctant to send it due to confidentiality issues. The rtv2doc (.docx) report is usually enough for us.
- In case the customer can't commit to send us the RVTools report (.xlsx) we can send [the required rvt2doc binary executable](https://gitlab.consulting.redhat.com/marmendo/rvt2doc/-/tree/master/dist), and the customer can run the rvt2doc.exe utility and send back the generated (.docx) document. 

## Tested configurations

rvt2doc.py and the resulting binaries have been tested in the following configurations.

|Operating System|Python version|
|----------|-----------|
|Windows 10|Python 3.11|
|Fedora 41|Python 3.11|


## Building the binaries

**For internal use** you can directly run the Python rvt2doc.py script to process your customer's spreadsheets.

**For customer use** this is recommended to send the tested binaries available on the [dist folder](https://gitlab.consulting.redhat.com/marmendo/rvt2doc/-/tree/master/dist).


In case you want to build new binaries this can be achieved with the pyinstaller utility
- Use Python 3.11 or greater
- This applies the same for windows and linux

Pyinstaller should be installed and run in a **[venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)** where the required packages are already installed. In order to do so you will usually run commands like the following ones. Your IDE could provide a better way to achieve the same results.

Install required dependencies:
`pip install python-docx pandas openpyxl pandas.compat`

Install pyinstaller: 
`pip install pyinstaller`

Generate binary executable: 
`pyinstaller --onefile rvt2doc.py`

